i
1

evelopinn
f che investment

oounmut

RELATIONS Urn pRVELOPDG.
In this sore of parspective, relations with 4
Ly ®

ee are Co a considerable extent a function of
Le not mere

  
   

climate there ~ the attitude to exiating {nvestment and the
‘This, of course,
This, of
nally

 

receptiveness €0 new investment.
bilaceral matter. [€ {s @ muleilateral matter, espectallys Of
course, the sort of discussions vinich are carried on interneri htt
under the esis of the UN, where the developing councries are 21
f00 Likely co Line up with the extremists wio may have Little ©

 

im the matter rather than wich the moderates who are more directhyY
interested in receiving investment from abroad and vho have &
greater understanding of what ts involved.

5. ‘The Germans in our talks referred to their misgivings on Co
particular scores: the handling of the debate on rulttnattonal
corporations and the future of the "Charter of Economic Mtights and
Duties of States". On the first of those, they were much concerned
that the discussion should be kept on the right Lines and that t
should be placed firmly in the hands of governmental representatives
Father than left to the caprice of "indopendent exports", the word
"independent" being very differently interpreted from one group of

countries to another.
6. On the question of the Charter, they were greatly concerned
about the implications of some of the disagreed passages so far
discussed, especially, of course, as regards the permanent
sovereignty over natural resources and the terms of compensation
for expropriation.
7. ‘They were equally exercised by the background to the discussio
of these issues already created by tha Special Seanion of the

at which they thought a prevailing

Mis

General Assembly in the spring,
characteristic of the ide attitude was a "Lack of goodwill".

led them to think that the right way to dafend our interests waa to

be ready to vote against unacceptable texte and to do vo at an
There seemed to be some miagiving about the fact that

 

early stage.
we had allowed the documentary outcome of the Spectal Session to
&0 through without having voted againot it.

CONFIDENTIAL HIMPLIGATIONS FOR

   
 

 

emmee TIN TTA,