CR
Penn aiseum and

 

   

Ravan Rear YR Vnr ee O. ge q
So, AG Re en
Secor trnwan beparenen (BZ genta’ Gn?
Poff

Private secre

       

    

 

 

GPrivath Secretary £0 te liateeretay "thoeneons
Rescoeh § r fo bys Hogabeyy ut eens
RESSTRENES teehee butter et HE TORS Bgparenene 28 Gey
27 nose RUNS ee
a Ce He Statham) nom
Pale conte 2 Mr packencle, UKMIS. »
"hr Holfana TE. Me Milayard, UTS Sleep,
Ick: Me Gatlaphet, UeDnt o
4

   

Ri Se je (TED)
Mr Goldsmieh, BRUSSE

GERMANY! INVESTMENT AND ECOMOMIC RELATIONS WIT THE DEVELOPING
Goa

ae a inink AE WOFEN reflecting on certain broader Lenuae above
German attitudes which emerged from ALecunsions wa held Last woo!

with the Germans on problema of investment relations with third

The records of the meeting will be circulated in due

countries.
In thie minute I deal

course and followup action is in train.
with the broader tmplications.

EXTERNAL IMVESTYENT AND THE GERMAN ECONOMY
The picture which emerged from what was said both during our
tingswith the Germans and in private conversation outside with
Herr von Pewitz, who 1s one of rau Steeg's Deputies in the Federal

can be broadly summed up as follows.

ee

 

Ministry of Economies
3. ‘There has been a very conoidorable flow of private investment
from Germany to the world as a wiole in the last eighteen months
and to developing countries in particular. ‘Tha total of external
investment Ls naw of the order of ni30 billion/and the proportion

of this investment in daveloping countries has also been rising
0 that Lt row accounts for about one=thixd of the whole, ‘This was
4 reflection of the "international division of Labour", The Gorman
productive process 16 undergoing a "atructural change" with the
transfer of profuction abroad. ‘here are, of course, social reasons
both for and against this. The problems of further absorbtion of
"guest workers" clearly militate in favour of transferring produc-
But the threat of unemployment in Germany and of

tion abroad,
on which the Government has certainly

"exporting jobs" 16 something
to reckon with the Unions,

GONP TENTIAL,

a