ComrTpey PIAL

   
   
  
 
 
 
  

do vatch the
wer of

 

AMPLICATIONS FOR CERMAN YOREION POLICY
ALL of Bhs was Ln sone contrast Eo the atthe

3.
Germans adopted at our previous talks in London in the #9 :
1973. There ther attitude was very puch one of low profile and
unwillingness to ¢tand up and be counced. At our talks tn Bonn
las week the Cerman Foreign Office was notable for tts absence
except in the closing stages. The Mintetry of Econonte Cooperation
represented at a relatively modest level- lence the Ministry
The question wich arisess

of Economies made all the running.

therefore, {s how far the sort of hard-line approach which wo
observed in the talks would in fact be reflected in povermmental
I could well believe that in the Brandt era the Ministry

poliey.
of Foreign Affairs would have been able to ensure the softeninf:
The situation may be very different,

  

of a hard-nosed attitude.
however, under the present governmant and given the atticudes of
They are, 1 think,

atritude

rr Apel and Herr Fri drichs.

 

Herr Scheidt, #
likely to ask what evidence there is that an accommodating

on our part 1s likely to be met by a similar willingness to com~
The news of the

pronise on the part of the developing countries.
decision to exclude South Africa from further participation in

sion of the Assembly was, of course, received
Equally, the Germans were very

 

the current 5:
during our talks with the Germans.
conscious of the developrents as far as the World Food Conference
in Rome was concerned and the upshot of the recent session of the
Law of the Sea Conference,

In such an attitude, moreover, it ie difficult not to believe

oe
that the Germans would think that they were solidly aligned with

U3 attitudes as evidenced in particular, of course, in Dr Kissinger!
The Germans Cold us that Herr Fr idrichs had

recent speech.
recently been to Saudi Arabia and,had time permitted, was going
to tell us something of the upshot of tho visit, In the event tt
was not possible to cover thi But Herr von Hewlts did say
that they aseumed that the of1 producers might have a aimtlar
interest as the Germans an regards capital investment abroad. And
the implication was that 1f we could play for time, eg in discussion

of the Charter of Economic Rights and Nuties of States, the oil
At all events,

 

 

 

Producers might to some extent rally to our side.
T detected little interest on the German part in the sort of
JexploratLon

LT