CONFIDENTIAL

exploration of a "new international order" wyich the davelaved
ened willing Lo entenplate at the ouEsce ~

© coneluaion = of Last spring's Speck

   
 

 

world aa 4 whole
££ net neceasarily at

 

embl ys

 

Session of the General A:
IMPLICATIONS FOR ‘Nut UNTTED KINGDOM
10, Wuac I found of particular interest in all of this were
fhe implications for Anglo-German relations. The Germans ma/ie
On muleinatLonal corporations
fommionLon

 

Ewe points to us specifically.
Shey were worried about our advocacy of the propoved C
thoy

ent
Being entrusted to private individuals rather than to govern™
As far as the Charter was concernedy
Nerr von pewit=
on of

representatives.

thought that our attitude was unduly "relaxed".

emphasised to me privately German misgivings on the questh

the Charter in particular. There havo been discussions in the

Community on this already and we shall need to watch our own

position in relation to our Community partnera very carefully~
the Germans are

But there were two further points.

First,
very interested in the discussion in OECN of investment quetions

il.

and the r6le of the multinational corporations which we shall be

taking further at next week's meoting of the Executive Gommittec

in Special Session. (The leading light within the OfCn Secretarial

on this subject is the German Assistant Secretary~General,

Herr Abramowski.) Secondly, of course, there are our own efforts

to interest Germans in investing in the UK. Mr Statham, after
host at a very enjoyable lunch on the second day of our

The Gorman

 

acting
talks, went off to Munich to preside at the seminar.
attitude to investment in the UK is, I would have thought, likely

to be a function of our attitude towards international investment

questions generally,
I am sure that we need to keep in very close touch with the
Herr von Dewlts particularly

12.

 

Germans on all of th issues.
stressed the importance witch he attached to feeling ablo to ring
Mo may be

me direct (which he has done once or twice alroady).
able to make good use of this channel provided that we coordinate

Properly on our side. 1
iii SN gutted
ee . Marrohal